I hear that it's pretty tough here's
pretty tough and get pretty muddy I've
done a lot of races and I can tell you
the mud run by far exceeds most of the
ones that I've done to say the least you
have to be in really good shape there
yeah it's extremely humbling to say the
least love runs the basic terms of 6.2
mile obstacle course with 36 obstacles
and what it does is a challenge for
everybody to come out and push themself
both mentally and physically it starts
off being a lot of high energy pure
excitement everyone initially starts you
know putting out the best they can and
towards the middle somewhere it gets to
almost mass chaos because just get
thousands of people coming through at
one time like towards the last two hours
it's just it's just like zombies walking
we have a lot of Marines of volunteer
their time to come out and be the judges
towards the end the energy really relies
on the Marines that's where we're the
ones putting out the energy and trying
to get the contestants to pick up my
favorite one motivate and we probably
going to be the yelling I said one
opportunity where it doesn't matter
who's on the course you get to yell at
him you can tell when people are gassed
and you got to ease up on them a little
bit but mostly it's a lot of yelling a
lot of yelling and motivation people are
motivated they come from all over the
United States this last run or two we've
had some from outside the United States
back in 1993 it started out just as an
event to get people out in to help raise
money for marine charities around a
local area what it's transformed into
over the last two decades is it's in the
lead of that yeah my favorite obstacle
on the entire modern avatars out of Jane
Tarzan and Jane the part then it was
called the Tarzan Tarzan it's almost
impossible to finish that up almost near
possible complete it's a very difficult
obstacle to get through this
I never seem to make it past the first
rope I support the mud run because of
what it stands for it's not just about
you know hey this is the Marine Corps
this is what we are we do it for what
the mud run represents everything that
we make beyond the cost of putting right
on goes to a charity we've had the
Wounded Warrior Program Blue Star moms
of South Carolina hidden wounds there's
a lot of times at our local Marines the
families come to us and they get in some
really tough situations so we do our
best to help each other Marines take
care of marine really it's something
different you know it gets them outside
of their cubicle or outside of the house
and they can experience something that
they can do together it's going to make
them feel good about themselves it's
going to bring it closer as a group of
people it's a wild ride I mean when you
get pictures taken and you're clean at
the very beginning and at the end you're
you can only even you have to wipe the
mud out of your eyes and you put them
together up in your office and your home
wherever you're proud of it I mean it's
an event you'll never forget you get
motivated future lies we're really just
going to keep doing we're doing it would
get better change out some obstacles
build on what we've already got well
established here and just make it better
than any way we can